= epas

The <b>epas</b> acronym stands for EC2 Puppet Auto Signer.

This gem provides a simple script to autosign ec2 instances into puppet. This way you can launch new instances in ec2 and avoid having to sign them manually.

First it checks to see if there is any pending sign request, if there is it makes a query to AWS to obtain the instance_id of all machines. If any of this ids matches with the hostname of the request it signs it.

For example if we launch a new ec2 server whose instance id is i-12345 and we insert this id into the hostname (using user-data for example), and this server makes a request to our puppet master, this script will autosign the request.

    # user-data script example
    # Helper functions
    die() { status=$1; shift; echo "FATAL: $*"; exit $status; }
    instance_id="`wget -q -O - http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/instance-id || die \"wget instance-id has failed: $?\"`"
    # 1) Proper hostname setup (to be used by puppet)
    hostname="${instance_id}"
    echo $hostname > /proc/sys/kernel/hostname
    sed -i "s|localhost.localdomain|$hostname|g" /etc/sysconfig/network
    sed -i "s|localhost.localdomain|localhost.localdomain $hostname|g" /etc/hosts
    service puppet start

It expects to be run in a puppet-master server in a cron job or similar.

By default it reads aws credentials from "~/.awssecret" which should be a file with the aws id and the aws secret in separate lines.

Example contents of "~/.awssecret":

    1D43DD69O8EJGS3X2WR2
    zDWZH14jYZU0KBn09dCTHRQUJFAvpPz155o23Qu7

You can also pass another file as an argument:

    # Example cron job 1.
    * * * * * /bin/bash -l -c '`which ec2-puppet-autosigner` /path/to/aws_credentials'

By defaults it checks all avaliable regions, but you can also pass the regions you want to check as parameters:

   # Example cron job 2.
   * * * * * /bin/bash -l -c '`which ec2-puppet-autosigner` /path/to/aws_credentials eu-west-1 us-east-1'

== Contributing to epas

* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Ramon Salvadó. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

